The President:
Hi, everybody.
Over the past month, I've been
visiting towns across America,
talking about what our
country needs to do
to secure a better bargain
for the middle class.
This week, I met with high
school and college students
in New York and Pennsylvania
to discuss the surest path
to the middle class -
some form of higher education.
But at a moment when
a higher education
has never been more important,
it's also never been
more expensive.
That's why,
over the past four years,
we've helped make
college more affordable
for millions of students and
families with grants and loans
that go farther from before.
But students and families and
taxpayers cannot just keep
subsidizing college costs
that keep going up and up.
Not when the average
student now graduates
more than $26,000 in debt.
We cannot price the middle class
out of a college education.
That's why I proposed major new
reforms to make college more
affordable and make
it easier for folks
to pay for their education.
First, we're going
to start rating colleges
based on opportunity -
are they helping students
from all kinds
of backgrounds succeed,
and on outcomes - their value
to students and parents.
In time, we'll use those ratings
to make sure that the colleges
that keep their tuition
down are the ones
that will see their
taxpayer funding go up.
Second, we're going to jumpstart
competition between colleges
over innovations that help more
students graduate in less time,
at less cost,
while maintaining quality.
A number of schools are
already testing new approaches,
like putting more courses online
or basing course credit
on competence, not just hours
spent in the classroom.
And third, we're going
to help more students
responsibly manage their debt,
by making more
of them eligible
for a loan repayment program
called Pay-As-You-Earn,
which caps your loan payments
at 10 percent of what you make.
And we'll reach out directly
to students to make sure
they know that
this program exists.
These reforms won't be
popular with everybody.
But the path we're
on now is unsustainable
for our students
and our economy.
Higher education shouldn't be a
luxury, or a roll of the dice;
it's an economic imperative that
every family in America
should be able to afford.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.